Hopefully now, you're excited to get started with Truffle.
Getting started is easy,
and it's a great way to improve your developer experience.
In this video, I'll walk through the setup and some basic functionality it provides.
To start, head to the Truffle documentation to see how to install it.
From your terminal, all you need to do is type npm install truffle -g,
and your installation will start.
Once it started, you can set up
a project folder similar to how you would for other projects.
First, make a directory.
Now, change into that directory.
To initialize a Truffle project, type truffle init.
This will start building out the environment that you'll be building in.
It can take a minute, but once it's done,
you're all set to start building.
Open this up in your code editor to see what you got.
On the left panel, you'll see a contracts folder,
a migrations folder, and a test folder.
What Truffle is doing is allowing you to build
contracts from directly within your code editor.
It compiles, migrates, and deploys
these contracts whenever you run the commands to do this.
We'll go over those in a minute.
If you click on migrations.sol,
you'll see a smart contract already written out as an example.
Under migrations, you'll see a file that's responsible for migrating your smart contract.
In this case, migrating is similar to copying the ABI like you did in Remix.
When you migrate your contract,
you'll see a new file come up that includes the ABI
for you without you needing to copy and paste it every time.
Below that is the configuration files.
If you're on Windows, you'll want to look at truffle-config.js,
and if you're on a Mac, you'll want to use truffle.js.
Either way, these both do the same thing.
The config file is how you'll set up your network connections.
Once in the file, look at modules.exports.
Here, you'll see a link to the configuration details.
Follow that to see the latest version of these files from the Truffle website.
Grab that code and paste it into your editor.
By default, they're setting you up with the Ganache CLI,
but you can change that if you're using something else.
This is where you put your connection to other things like Infura.
Once you've made this connection,
you're connected to the blockchain and are ready to start building and testing.
For that, go back to your terminal.
In the terminal, you can view the commands available to you by typing truffle.
Check this out if you'd like,
but I'll focus on the ones that helped me compile and migrate my contract.
To do that, I can use the terminal to type truffle followed by the commands they provide.
Or I can log into the Truffle console and just type the name of the command.
I'll log into the Truffle console.
To do that, type truffle console to get started.
Once I'm here, I can compile and migrate my contracts. It's simple.
First, run the command compile.
Next, run the command migrate, and that's it.
You just compiled and migrated your contract.
This took care of a lot of the tedious work for you.
No more copying and pasting.
Back in the project, you'll see they created a new folder for you.
This folder includes the contract migration files.
If you look at the migrations.json file,
you'll see that's just the ABI of the contract that has been made for you.
It's that ABI plus all the other information you could
view from Remix when you click more details on your contract.
For an example of where to go from here,
let's make another contract file myMessage.sol.
In that file, I'll paste the contract we've been working on already.
We now have our contract set up,
so let's go back to the terminal.
From the terminal, we'll do the same thing again.
Type compile. Next, run the command migrate.
By doing that, you just got a whole new contract
compiled and migrated over to your build folder.
Head back to the project to see for yourself.
There it is. All right.
So, there's the basics of getting up and running with Truffle.
This is an excellent tool that can work
alongside a lot of the other tools you already know.
It helps abstract away a good chunk of the tedious work you'd be doing otherwise.
As you progress through the program,
you'll see a lot more about how this can provide
even more functionality for things like testing and deploying your contracts.